+++
date = "2016-10-13T11:37:02-05:00"
title = "Publications"
icon = "fa-book"
+++

## Journal Articles

1. van Aalst R, Gravenstein S, Mor V, Mahmud SM, Wilschut J, Postma M, Chit A. Comparative effectiveness of high dose versus adjuvanted influenza vaccine: A retrospective cohort study. Vaccine, 2020; 38(2):372-379.
1. Loiacono MM, Mahmud SM, Chit A, van Aalst R, Kwong JC, Mitsakakis N, Skinner L, Thommes E, Bricout H, Grootendorst P. Patient and practice level factors associated with seasonal influenza vaccine uptake among at-risk adults in England, 2011 to 2016: An age-stratified retrospective cohort study. Vaccine: X, 2020; 4:100054.
1. Righolt CH, Lagace-Wiens P, Mahmud SM. Prevalence, predictors, and consequences of inappropriate empiric antimicrobial therapy for complicated urinary tract and intra-abdominal infections in Winnipeg hospitals. Diagnostic microbiology and infectious disease, 2020; 96(1):114891.
1. Righolt CH, Zhang G, Ye X, Banerji V, Johnston JB, Gibson S, Mahmud SM. Statin Use and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Incidence: A Nested Case-Control Study in Manitoba, Canada. Cancer epidemiology, biomarkers &amp; prevention: a publication of the American Association for Cancer Research, cosponsored by the American Society of Preventive Oncology, 2019; 28(9):1495-1501.
1. van Aalst R, Russo EM, Neupane N, Mahmud SM, Mor V, Wilschut J, Chit A, Postma M, Young-Xu Y. Economic assessment of a high-dose versus a standard-dose influenza vaccine in the US Veteran population: Estimating the impact on hospitalization cost for cardio-respiratory disease. Vaccine, 2019; 37(32):4499-4503.
1. Bell CA, Russell ML, Drews SJ, Simmonds KA, Svenson LW, Schwartz KL, Kwong JC, Mahmud SM, Crowcroft NS. Acellular pertussis vaccine effectiveness and waning immunity in Alberta, Canada: 2010-2015, a Canadian Immunization Research Network (CIRN) study. Vaccine, 2019; 37(30):4140-4146.
1. Righolt CH, Bisewski R, Mahmud SM. Statin Use and Prostate Cancer Incidence in Manitoba, Canada: A Population-Based Nested Case-Control Study. Cancer epidemiology, biomarkers &amp; prevention: a publication of the American Association for Cancer Research, cosponsored by the American Society of Preventive Oncology, 2019; 28(10):1765-1768.
1. Hamad, Amani F and Alessi-Severini, Silvia and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Brownell, Marni and fan Kuo, I. Annual trends in prevalence and incidence of autism spectrum disorders in Manitoba preschoolers and toddlers: 2004–2015. Canadian Journal of Public Health, 2019; 110(4):476-484.
1. Ishdorj G, Beiggi S, Nugent Z, Streu E, Banerji V, Dhaliwal D, Mahmud SM, Marshall AJ, Gibson SB, Wiseman MC, Johnston JB. Risk factors for skin cancer and solid tumors in newly diagnosed patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the impact of skin surveillance on survival. Leukemia &amp; lymphoma, 2019; 60(13):3204-3213.
1. Okoli GN, Abou-Setta AM, Neilson CJ, Chit A, Thommes E, Mahmud SM. Determinants of Seasonal Influenza Vaccine Uptake Among the Elderly in the United States: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Gerontology &amp; geriatric medicine, 2019-01-01; 5:2333721419870345.
1. Ishdorj G, Streu E, Lambert P, Dhaliwal HS, Mahmud SM, Gibson SB, Banerji V, Marshall AJ, Johnston JB. IgA levels at diagnosis predict for infections, time to treatment, and survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Blood advances, 2019; 3(14):2188-2198.
1. Hamad AF, Alessi-Severini S, Mahmud SM, Brownell M, Kuo IF. Prenatal antibiotics exposure and the risk of autism spectrum disorders: A population-based cohort study. PloS one, 2019; 14(8):e0221921.
1. Young-Xu Y, Snider JT, van Aalst R, Mahmud SM, Thommes EW, Lee JKH, Greenberg DP, Chit A. Analysis of relative effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccines using an instrumental variable method. Vaccine, 2019; 37(11):1484-1490.
1. SM Mahmud. Translating scientific discoveries into action to reduce the current and future burden of cancer. Prev Med, 2019; 122:1-2, [10.1016/j.ypmed.2019.04.004](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ypmed.2019.04.004).
1. Hamad AF, Alessi-Severini S, Mahmud SM, Brownell M, Kuo IF. Annual trends in prevalence and incidence of autism spectrum disorders in Manitoba preschoolers and toddlers: 2004-2015. Canadian journal of public health = Revue canadienne de sante publique, 2019; 110(4):476-484.
1. Crowcroft NS, Schwartz KL, Chen C, Johnson C, Li Y, Marchand-Austin A, Bolotin S, Jamieson FB, Drews SJ, Russell ML, Svenson LW, Simmonds K, Mahmud SM, Kwong JC. Pertussis vaccine effectiveness in a frequency matched population-based case-control Canadian Immunization Research Network study in Ontario, Canada 2009-2015. Vaccine, 2019; 37(19):2617-2623.
1. Hamad AF, Alessi-Severini S, Mahmud SM, Brownell M, Kuo IF. Antibiotic Exposure in the First Year of Life and the Risk of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder: A Population-Based Cohort Study. American journal of epidemiology, 2019; 188(11):1923-1931.
1. Torres-Ibarra L, Cuzick J, Lorincz AT, Spiegelman D, Lazcano-Ponce E, Franco EL, Moscicki AB, Mahmud SM, Wheeler CM, Rivera-Paredez B, Hernández-López R, León-Maldonado L, Salmerón J, FRIDA Study Group. Comparison of HPV-16 and HPV-18 Genotyping and Cytological Testing as Triage Testing Within Human Papillomavirus-Based Screening in Mexico. JAMA network open, 2019; 2(11):e1915781.
1. Wilkinson K, Righolt CH, Kwong JC, Schwartz KL, Russell ML, Crowcroft NS, Mahmud SM. A nested case-control study measuring pertussis vaccine effectiveness and duration of protection in Manitoba, Canada, 1992-2015: A Canadian Immunization Research Network Study. Vaccine, 2019; 37(48):7132-7137.
1. Righolt CH, Bozat-Emre S, Mahmud SM. Effectiveness of school-based and high-risk human papillomavirus vaccination programs against cervical dysplasia in Manitoba, Canada. International journal of cancer, 2019; 145(3):671-677.
1. Ye X, Monchka BA, Righolt CH, Mahmud SM. Maternal use of antibiotics and cancer incidence risk in offspring: A population-based cohort study in Manitoba, Canada. Cancer medicine, 2019; 8(11):5367-5372.
1. Perciani CT, Farah B, Kaul R, Ostrowski MA, Mahmud SM, Anzala O, Jaoko W, KAVI-ICR Team, MacDonald KS. Live attenuated varicella-zoster virus vaccine does not induce HIV target cell activation. The Journal of clinical investigation, 2019; 129(2):875-886.
1. Mahmud SM, Bozat-Emre S, Mostaço-Guidolin LC, Marrie RA. Registry Cohort Study to Determine Risk for Multiple Sclerosis after Vaccination for Pandemic Influenza A(H1N1) with Arepanrix, Manitoba, Canada. Emerging infectious diseases, 2018; 24(7):1267-1274.
1. Hannouf, Malek B and Winquist, Eric and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Brackstone, Muriel and Sarma, Sisira and Rodrigues, George and Rogan, Peter K and Hoch, Jeffrey S and Zaric, Gregory S. The potential clinical and economic value of primary tumour identification in metastatic cancer of unknown primary tumour: a population-based retrospective matched cohort study. PharmacoEconomics-open, 2018; 2(3):255-270.
1. Petousis-Harris, Helen and Paynter, Janine and Morgan, Jane and Saxton, Peter and Goodyear-Smith, Felicity and Black, Steven. Pitfalls of the healthy vaccinee effect–Authors&#39; reply. The Lancet, 2018; 391(10116):123-124.
1. Young-Xu, Yinong and Van Aalst, Robertus and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Rothman, Kenneth J and Snider, Julia Thornton and Westreich, Daniel and Mor, Vincent and Gravenstein, Stefan and Lee, Jason KH and Thommes, Edward W. Relative vaccine effectiveness of high-dose versus standard-dose influenza vaccines among Veterans Health Administration patients. The Journal of infectious diseases, 2018; 217(11):1718-1727.
1. Willows, Karla and Bozat-Emre, Songul and Righolt, Christiaan H and Kliewer, Erich V and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. Early Evidence of the Effectiveness of the Human Papillomavirus Vaccination Program Against Anogenital Warts in Manitoba, Canada: A Registry Cohort Study. Sexually transmitted diseases, 2018; 45(4):254-259.
1. Hannouf, Malek B and Winquist, Eric and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Brackstone, Muriel and Sarma, Sisira and Rodrigues, George and Rogan, Peter K and Hoch, Jeffrey S and Zaric, Gregory S. The clinical significance of occult gastrointestinal primary tumours in metastatic cancer: a population retrospective cohort study. Cancer research and treatment: official journal of Korean Cancer Association, 2018; 50(1):183.
1. Kim, CS and Hannouf, MB and Sarma, S and Rodrigues, GB and Rogan, PK and Mahmud, SM and Winquist, E and Brackstone, M and Zaric, GS. Survival outcome differences based on treatments used and knowledge of the primary tumour site for patients with cancer of unknown and known primary in Ontario. Current Oncology, 2018; 25(5):307.
1. Weibel D, Sturkenboom M, Black S, de Ridder M, Dodd C, Bonhoeffer J, Vanrolleghem A, van der Maas N, Lammers GJ, Overeem S, Gentile A, Giglio N, Castellano V, Kwong JC, Murray BJ, Cauch-Dudek K, Juhasz D, Campitelli M, Datta AN, Kallweit U, Huang WT, Huang YS, Hsu CY, Chen HC, Giner-Soriano M, Morros R, Gaig C, Tió E, Perez-Vilar S, Diez-Domingo J, Puertas FJ, Svenson LW, Mahmud SM, Carleton B, Naus M, Arnheim-Dahlström L, Pedersen L, DeStefano F, Shimabukuro TT. Narcolepsy and adjuvanted pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 vaccines - Multi-country assessment. Vaccine, 2018; 36(41):6202-6211.
1. Ye, Xibiao and Zhang, Geng and Righolt, Christiaan and Johnston, James B and Banerji, Versha and Gibson, Spencer B and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. Metformin Is Not Associated with Incidence Risk of Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas among Diabetic Patients. Cancer Epidemiology and Prevention Biomarkers, 2018; 27(5):610-612.
1. Ye X, Zhang G, Righolt C, Johnston JB, Banerji V, Gibson SB, Mahmud SM. Associations between statin use and risk of non-Hodgkin lymphomas by subtype. International journal of cancer, 2018; 143(4):971-979.
1. Crowcroft, Natasha S and Johnson, Caitlin and Chen, Cynthia and Li, Ye and Marchand-Austin, Alex and Bolotin, Shelly and Schwartz, Kevin and Deeks, Shelley L and Jamieson, Frances and Drews, Steven. Under-reporting of pertussis in Ontario: A Canadian Immunization Research Network (CIRN) study using capture-recapture. PloS one, 2018; 13(5):e0195984.
1. Kelly, Lauren E and Dyson, Michele P and Butcher, Nancy J and Balshaw, Robert and London, Alex John and Neilson, Christine J and Junker, Anne and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Driedger, S Michelle and Wang, Xikui. Considerations for adaptive design in pediatric clinical trials: study protocol for a systematic review, mixed-methods study, and integrated knowledge translation plan. Trials, 2018; 19(1):572.
1. Dawe DE, Ye X, Czaykowski P, Jassal D, Singh H, Skarsgard D, Aprikian A, Mahmud SM. The effect of statin use on the incidence of prostate cancer: A population-based nested case-control study. International journal of cancer, 2018; 143(1):190-198.
1. Hamad, Amani F and Alessi-Severini, Silvia and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Brownell, Marni and Kuo, I Fan. Early childhood antibiotics use and autism spectrum disorders: a population-based cohort study. International journal of epidemiology, 2018; 47(5):1497-1506.
1. Loewen, Keely and Monchka, Barret and Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Jong, Geert&#39;t and Azad, Meghan B. Prenatal antibiotic exposure and childhood asthma: a population-based study. European Respiratory Journal, 2018; 52(1):1702070.
1. Hannouf MB, Winquist E, Mahmud SM, Brackstone M, Sarma S, Rodrigues G, Rogan PK, Hoch JS, Zaric GS. The Potential Clinical and Economic Value of Primary Tumour Identification in Metastatic Cancer of Unknown Primary Tumour: A Population-Based Retrospective Matched Cohort Study. PharmacoEconomics - open, 2018; 2(3):255-270.
1. Weibel, Daniel and Sturkenboom, Miriam and Black, Steven and de Ridder, Maria and Dodd, Caitlin and Bonhoeffer, Jan and Vanrolleghem, Ann and van der Maas, Nicoline and Lammers, Gert Jan and Overeem, Sebastiaan. Narcolepsy and adjuvanted pandemic influenza A (H1N1) 2009 vaccines–Multi-country assessment. Vaccine, 2018; 36(41):6202-6211.
1. Righolt, Christiaan H and Pabla, Gurpreet and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. The Direct Medical Costs of Diseases Associated with Human Papillomavirus Infection in Manitoba, Canada. Applied health economics and health policy, 2018; 16(2):195-205.
1. Righolt, Christiaan H and Monchka, Barret A and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. From source code to publication: Code Diary, an automatic documentation parser for SAS. SoftwareX, 2018; 7:222-225.
1. Loewen K, Monchka B, Mahmud SM, &#39;t Jong G, Azad MB. Prenatal antibiotic exposure and childhood asthma: a population-based study. The European respiratory journal, 2018; 52(1):1702070.
1. Dawe, David E and Ye, Xibiao and Czaykowski, Piotr and Jassal, Davinder and Singh, Harminder and Skarsgard, David and Aprikian, Armen and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. The effect of statin use on the incidence of prostate cancer: A population?based nested case–control study. International journal of cancer, 2018; 143(1):190-198.
1. Kelly LE, Dyson MP, Butcher NJ, Balshaw R, London AJ, Neilson CJ, Junker A, Mahmud SM, Driedger SM, Wang X. Considerations for adaptive design in pediatric clinical trials: study protocol for a systematic review, mixed-methods study, and integrated knowledge translation plan. Trials, 2018; 19(1):572.
1. Hamad AF, Alessi-Severini S, Mahmud SM, Brownell M, Kuo IF. Early childhood antibiotics use and autism spectrum disorders: a population-based cohort study. International journal of epidemiology, 2018; 47(5):1497-1506.
1. Mahmud, Salaheddin M and Bozat-Emre, Songul and Mostaço-Guidolin, Luiz C and Marrie, Ruth Ann. Registry Cohort Study to Determine Risk for Multiple Sclerosis after Vaccination for Pandemic Influenza A (H1N1) with Arepanrix, Manitoba, Canada. Emerging infectious diseases, 2018; 24(7):1267.
1. Righolt, Christiaan H and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. Attrition diagrams for clinical trials and meta-analyses in Stata. The Stata Journal, 2018; 18(2):387-394.
1. Lavigne, Salme E and Doupe, Malcolm B and Iacopino, Anthony M and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. The effects of power toothbrushing on C-reactive protein levels in nursing home residents: A randomized controlled trial. Canadian Journal of Dental Hygiene, 2018; 52(1):.
1. Ye, Xibiao and Zhang, Geng and Righolt, Christiaan and Johnston, James B and Banerji, Versha and Gibson, Spencer B and Mahmud, Salaheddin M. Associations between statin use and risk of non?Hodgkin lymphomas by subtype. International journal of cancer, 2018; 143(4):971-979.
1. Steven Hawken [S], Robin Ducharme, Laura C. Rosella, Eric I. Benchimol, Joanne M. Langley, Kumanan Wilson, Natasha S. Crowcroft, Scott A. Halperin, Shalina Desai, Monika Naus, Carolyn J. Sanford, Salah M. Mahmud, Shelley L. Deeks. Assessing the Risk of Intussusception and Rotavirus Vaccine Safety in Canada. Human Vaccines &amp; Immunotherapeutics, 2017; 13(3):703-710, [10.1080/21645515.2016.1240846](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21645515.2016.1240846).
1. Ye X [V], Mneina A [S], Johnston JB, Mahmud SM. Associations between statin use and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) risk and survival: a meta-analysis. Hematological oncology, 2017; 35(2):206-214, [10.1002/hon.2265](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/hon.2265).
1. Ye X [V], Torabi M, Lix LM, Mahmud SM. Time and spatial trends in lymphoid leukemia and lymphoma incidence and survival among children and adolescents in Manitoba, Canada: 1984-2013. PloS one, 2017; 12(4):e0175701, [10.1371/journal.pone.0175701](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0175701).
1. Zong X, Pole JD, Grundy PE, Mahmud SM, Parker L, Hung RJ. Second malignant neoplasms after childhood non-central nervous system embryonal tumours in North America: A population-based study. European journal of cancer (Oxford, England: 1990), 2017; 84:173-183, [10.1016/j.ejca.2017.06.035](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ejca.2017.06.035).
1. Potter J [V], Mahmud SM. Severe respiratory illness of unexplained etiology during the 2009 influenza pandemic: Analysis of Clinical Features and Outcomes. Human vaccines &amp; immunotherapeutics, 2017; 13(11):2669-2673, [10.1080/21645515.2017.1370162](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21645515.2017.1370162).
1. Ye X [V], Mahmud S, Skrabek P, Lix L, Johnston JB. Long-term time trends in incidence, survival and mortality of lymphomas by subtype among adults in Manitoba, Canada: a population-based study using cancer registry data. BMJ open, 2017; 7(7):e015106, [10.1136/bmjopen-2016-015106](http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2016-015106).
1. Dawe DE [S], Mahmud S. Biologic and epidemiologic evidence assessing if statins prevent prostate cancer. The Canadian journal of urology, 2017; 24(6):9081-9088.
1. Wilson SE, Quach S, MacDonald SE, Naus M, Deeks SL, Crowcroft NS, Mahmud SM, Tran D, Kwong J, Tu K, Gilbert NL, Johnson C, Desai S. Methods used for immunization coverage assessment in Canada, a Canadian Immunization Research Network (CIRN) study. Human vaccines &amp; immunotherapeutics, 2017; 13(8):1928-1936, [10.1080/21645515.2017.1319022](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21645515.2017.1319022).
1. Mahmud SM, Sinnock H [S], Mostaço-Guidolin LC [S], Pabla G [V], Wierzbowski AK [S], Bozat-Emre S [S]. Long-term trends in invasive pneumococcal disease in Manitoba, Canada. Human vaccines &amp; immunotherapeutics, 2017; 13(11):1-8, [10.1080/21645515.2017.1320006](http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/21645515.2017.1320006).
1. Salme E Lavigne [S], Malcolm B Doupe, Anthony M Iacopino, Salah Mahmud, Lawrence Elliott. The Effects of Power Toothbrushing on Periodontal Inflammation in a Nursing Home Population: a randomised controlled trial. International Journal of Dental Hygiene, 2017; 15(4), [10.1111/idh.12268](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/idh.12268).
1. Wilson SE, Quach S, MacDonald SE, Naus M, Deeks SL, Crowcroft NS, Mahmud SM, Tran D, Kwong JC, Tu K, Johnson C, Desai S. Immunization Information Systems in Canada: Attributes, Functionality, Strengths and Challenges, a Canadian Immunization Research Network (CIRN) study. Canadian Journal of Public Health, 2017; 107(6):E575-E582, [10.17269/cjph.107.5679](http://dx.doi.org/10.17269/cjph.107.5679).
1. Wilkinson K [S], Wei Y, Szwajcer A, Rabbani R, Zarychanski R, Abou-Setta AM, Mahmud SM. Efficacy and safety of high-dose influenza vaccine in elderly adults: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Vaccine, 2017; 35(21):2775-2780, [10.1016/j.vaccine.2017.03.092](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.vaccine.2017.03.092).
1. Hannouf MB, Winquist E, Mahmud SM, Brackstone M, Sarma S, Rodrigues G, Rogan PK, Hoch JS, Zaric GS. The clinical significance of occult gynecologic primary tumours in metastatic cancer. Current oncology, 2017; 24(5):e368-e378, [10.3747/co.24.3594](http://dx.doi.org/10.3747/co.24.3594).
1. Perciani CT, Jaoko W, Walmsley S, Farah B, Mahmud SM, Ostrowski M, Anzala O, Team KI, MacDonald KS. Protocol of a randomised controlled trial characterising the immune responses induced by varicella-zoster virus (VZV) vaccination in healthy Kenyan women: setting the stage for a potential VZV-based HIV vaccine. BMJ open, 2017; 7(9):e017391, [10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017391](http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2017-017391).
1. Jun M, Lix LM, Durand M, Dahl M, Paterson JM, Dormuth CR, Ernst P, Yao S, Renoux C, Tamim H, Wu C, Mahmud SM, Hemmelgarn BR, Canadian Network for Observational Drug Effect Studies (CNODES) Investigators. Comparative safety of direct oral anticoagulants and warfarin in venous thromboembolism: multicentre, population based, observational study. BMJ (Clinical research ed, 2017; 359:j4323, [10.1136/bmj.j4323](http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmj.j4323).
1. Deng X, Peirano G, Schillberg E [S], Mazzulli T, Gray-Owen SD, Wylie JL, Robinson DA, Mahmud S, Pillai DR. Whole-genome sequencing reveals the origin and rapid evolution of an emerging outbreak strain of Streptococcus pneumoniae 12F. Clinical infectious diseases, 2016; 62(9):1126-32, [10.1093/cid/ciw050](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciw050).
1. David E. Dawe [S], David Christiansen, Anand Swaminath, Peter M. Ellis, Janet Rothney, Rasheda Rabbani, Ahmed M. Abou-Setta, Ryan Zarychanski, Salaheddin M. Mahmud. Chemoradiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone in elderly patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Lung Cancer: An International Journal for Lung Cancer and Other Thoracic Malignancies, 2016; 99:180–185, [10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.07.016](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.07.016).
1. Dube E, Bettinger JA, Fisher WA, Naus M, Mahmud SM, Hilderman T. Vaccine acceptance, hesitancy and refusal in Canada: Challenges and potential approaches. Canada Communicable Disease Report (CCDR), 2016; 42(12):246-251.
1. C.H. Harlos, H. Singh, Z. Nugent, A. Demers, S.M. Mahmud, P.M. Czaykowski. The risk of colorectal cancer is not increased after a diagnosis of urothelial cancer: a population-based study. Current Oncology, 2016; 23(6):391-397, [10.3747/co.23.3304](http://dx.doi.org/10.3747/co.23.3304).
1. Shaw E, Ramanakumar AV, El-Zein M, Silva FR, Galan L, Baggio ML, Villa LL, Franco EL, Mahmud SM, Ludwig-McGill Cohort Study. Reproductive and genital health and risk of cervical human papillomavirus infection: results from the Ludwig-McGill cohort study. BMC infectious diseases, 2016; 16(1):116, [10.1186/s12879-016-1446-x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12879-016-1446-x).
1. Alan C. Jackson, Luiz C. Mostaco-Guidolin [S], Hasantha Sinnock [S], Songul Bozat-Emre [S], Michael Routledge and Salaheddin M. Mahmud. Pandemic H1N1 Vaccination and Incidence of Acute Disseminated Encephalomyelitis in Manitoba. Canadian Journal of Neurological Sciences, 2016; 43(2):1-10, [10.1017/cjn.2016.291](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/cjn.2016.291).
1. Hannouf MB, Winquist E, Mahmud SM, Brackstone M, Sarma S, Rodrigues G, Rogan P, Hoch JS, Zaric GS. Cost-effectiveness of using a gene expression profiling test to aid in identifying the primary tumour in patients with cancer of unknown primary. The Pharmacogenomics Journal, 2016; 17(3):286-300, [10.1038/tpj.2015.94](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/tpj.2015.94).
1. Desautels D, Czaykowski P, Nugent Z, Demers AA, Mahmud SM, Singh H. Risk of colorectal cancer after the diagnosis of prostate cancer: A population-based study. Cancer, 2016; 122(8):1254-60, [10.1002/cncr.29919](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cncr.29919).
1. Aliyu G [S], Mahmud SM. Postal recruitment and consent obtainment from index cases of narcolepsy. BMC medical ethics, 2016; 17(1):6, [10.1186/s12910-016-0089-1](http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12910-016-0089-1).
1. Steven Hawken [V], Beth Potter, Julian Little, Eric Benchimol, Salah Mahmud, Robin Ducharme, Kumanan Wilson. The Use of Relative Incidence Ratios in Self-controlled Case Series Studies: An Overview. BMC Medical Research Methodology, 2016; 16(1):126, [10.1186/s12874-016-0225-0](http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12874-016-0225-0).
1. Kim CS, Hannouf MB, Sarma S, Rodrigues GB, Rogan PK, Mahmud SM, Winquist E, Brackstone M, Zaric GS. Identification and survival outcomes of a cohort of patients with cancer of unknown primary in Ontario, Canada. Acta oncologica (Stockholm, Sweden), 2015; 54(10):1781-7, [10.3109/0284186X.2015](http://dx.doi.org/10.3109/0284186X.2015).
1. Songul Bozat-Emre [S], Hasantha Sinnock [S], Natalie Casaclang [S], Salaheddin Mahmud. A review of mid-season effectiveness of the 2013/14 seasonal influenza vaccines. National Collaborating Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCCID), 2015;:.
1. Aynslie M Hinds [S], Songul Bozat-Emre [S], Paul Van Caeseele and Salaheddin M Mahmud. Comparison of the epidemiology of laboratory-confirmed influenza A and influenza B cases in Manitoba, Canada. BMC Public Health, 2015; 15:35, [10.1186/s12889-015-1351-z](http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12889-015-1351-z).
1. Mahmud SM, Bozat-Emre S [S], Hammond G, Elliott L, Van Caeseele P. Did the H1N1 Vaccine Reduce the Risk of Admission with Influenza and Pneumonia during the Pandemic. PloS one, 2015; 10(11):e0142754, [10.1371/journal.pone.0142754](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0142754).
1. Neumann K, Mahmud SM, McKay A, Park J, Metcalfe J, Hochman DJ. Is obesity associated with advanced stage or grade of colon cancer. Canadian journal of surgery. Journal canadien de chirurgie, 2015; 58(2):140-142, [10.1503/cjs.004414](http://dx.doi.org/10.1503/cjs.004414).
1. Xibiao Ye [V], Salaheddin M. Mahmud. Pharmacologic prevention of cancer: Do we have sufficient evidence to support clinical practice. Oncology Exchange, 2015; 14(3):15-20.
1. Ferguson TW, Tangri N, Macdonald K, Hiebert B, Rigatto C, Sood MM, Shaw S, Lerner B, Xu Y, Mahmud S, Komenda P. The diagnostic accuracy of tests for latent tuberculosis infection in hemodialysis patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Transplantation, 2015; 99(5):1084-91, [10.1097/TP.0000000000000451](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/TP.0000000000000451).
1. Renoux C, Lix LM, Patenaude V, Bresee LC, Paterson JM, Lafrance JP, Tamim H, Mahmud SM, Alsabbagh MW, Hemmelgarn B, Dormuth CR, Ernst P, Canadian Network of Observational Drug Effect Studies (CNODES) Investigators. Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors and the Risk of AKI: A Cohort Study of Eight Administrative Databases and Meta-Analysis. Clinical journal of the American Society of Nephrology: CJASN, 2015; 10(10):1716-22, [10.2215/CJN.11271114](http://dx.doi.org/10.2215/CJN.11271114).
1. Richardson LA, El-Zein M, Ramanakumar AV, Ratnam S, Sangwa-Lugoma G, Longatto-Filho A, Cardoso MA, Coutlée F, Franco EL, Mahmud SM PEACHS (Pap Efficacy After Cervical HPV Status) Study Consortium. HPV DNA testing with cytology triage in cervical cancer screening: Influence of revealing HPV infection status. Cancer cytopathology, 2015; 123(12):745-754, [10.1002/cncy.21596](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cncy.21596).
1. Songul Bozat-Emre [S], Hasantha Sinnock [S], Natalie Casaclang [S], Salaheddin Mahmud. Effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccines against influenza A (H1N1) infection in post-pandemic seasons: Highlights of a systematic review. National Collaborating Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCCID), 2015;:.
1. Skowronski DM, Chambers C, Sabaiduc S, De Serres G, Winter AL, Dickinson JA, Gubbay J, Fonseca K, Charest H, Krajden M, Petric M, Mahmud SM, Van Caeseele P, Bastien N, Eshaghi A, Li Y. Integrated sentinel surveillance linking genetic, antigenic and epidemiologic monitoring of influenza vaccine-virus relatedness and effectiveness, 2013-14 season. The Journal of infectious diseases, 2015; 212(5):726-739, [10.1093/infdis/jiv177](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/infdis/jiv177).
1. Trottier H, Mayrand MH, Baggio ML, Galan L, Ferenczy A, Villa LL, Franco EL, Mahmud SM, Ludwig-McGill Cohort Study Group. Risk of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Infection and Cervical Neoplasia after Pregnancy. BMC pregnancy and childbirth, 2015; 15:244, [10.1186/s12884-015-0675-0](http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s12884-015-0675-0).
1. Paulson K [S], Serebrin A, Lambert P, Bergeron J, Everett J, Kew A, Jones D, Mahmud S, Meloche C, Sabloff M, Sharif I, Storring J,Turner D, Seftel MD. Acute promyelocytic leukaemia is characterized by stable incidence and improved survival that is restricted to patients managed in leukaemia referral centres: a pan-Canadian epidemiological study. British Journal of Haematology, 2014; 166(5):660-666, [10.1111/bjh.12931](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/bjh.12931).
1. Songul Bozat-Emre [S], Malcolm Doupe, Anita L. Kozyrskyj, Ruby Grymonpre, Salaheddin M. Mahmud. Atypical Antipsychotic Drug Use and Falls among Nursing Home Residents in Winnipeg, Canada. International Journal of Geriatric Psychiatry, 2014; 30(8):842-50, [10.1002/gps.4223](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/gps.4223).
1. Sidahmed A, Abdalla S, Mahmud S, Wilkie B. Antiviral innate immune response of RNA interference. Journal of Infection in Developing Countries, 2014; 8(7):804-810, [10.3855/jidc.4187](http://dx.doi.org/10.3855/jidc.4187).
1. Mahmud SM, Kliewer EV, Lambert P, Bozat-Emre S [S], Demers AA. Effectiveness of the quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine against cervical dysplasia in Manitoba, Canada. Journal of clinical oncology, 2014; 32(5):438-43, [10.1200/JCO.2013.52.4645](http://dx.doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2013.52.4645).
1. Elkhammas E, Mahmud S. Towards Patients-centered Medicine in Libya: An Ethical Perspective. Ibnosina J Med BS, 2014; 6(1):42-43.
1. Skowronski DM, Janjua NZ, De Serres G, Sabaiduc S, Eshaghi A, Dickinson JA, Fonseca K, Winter AL, Gubbay JB, Krajden M, Petric M, Charest H, Bastien N, Kwindt TL, Mahmud SM, Van Caeseel. Low 2012-13 Influenza Vaccine Effectiveness Associated with Mutation in the Egg-Adapted H3N2 Vaccine Strain Not Antigenic Drift in Circulating Viruses. PloS one, 2014; 9(3):e92153, [10.1371/journal.pone.0092153](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0092153).
1. Skowronski D, Chambers C, Sabaiduc S, De Serres G, Dickinson J, Winter A, Fonseca K, Gubbay J, Charest H, Petric M, Krajden M, Mahmud S, Van Caeseele P, Kwindt T, Eshaghi A, Bastien N. Interim estimates of 2013/14 vaccine effectiveness against influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 from Canada&#39;s sentinel surveillance network, January 2014. Eurosurveillance: European communicable disease bulletin, 2014; 19(5):1-14.
1. Torabi M, Green C, Nugent Z, Mahmud S, Demers A, Griffith J, Singh H. Geographical variation and factors associated with colorectal cancer mortality in a universal health care system. Canadian Journal of Gastroenterology &amp; Hepatology, 2014; 28(4):191-197, [10.1155/2014/707420](http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2014/707420).
1. Thompson LH [S], Malik MT [S], Gumel A, Strome T, Mahmud SM. Emergency department and &#39;Google flu trends&#39; data as syndromic surveillance indicators for seasonal influenza. Epidemiology and Infection, 2014; 142(11):2397-2405, [10.1017/S0950268813003464](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S0950268813003464).
1. Xibiao Ye [V], Natalie Casaclang [S], Salaheddin M. Mahmud. Use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and risk of non-Hodgkin lymphoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Hematological Oncology, 2014; 33(4):176-186, [10.1002/hon.2165](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/hon.2165).
1. Skowronski DM, Janjua NZ, Sabaiduc S, De Serres G, Winter AL, Gubbay JB, Dickinson JA, Fonseca K, Charest H, Bastien N, Li Y, Kwindt TL, Mahmud SM, Van Caeseele P, Krajden M, Petric M. Influenza A/subtype and B/lineage effectiveness estimates for the 2011-12 trivalent vaccine: cross-season and cross-lineage protection with unchanged vaccine. The Journal of Infectious Diseases, 2014; 210(1):126-137, [10.1093/infdis/jiu048](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/infdis/jiu048).
1. Schillberg E [S], Isaac M, Deng X, Peirano G, Wylie JL, Van Caeseele P, Pillai DR, Sinnock H [S], Mahmud SM. Outbreak of invasive Streptococcus pneumoniae Serotype 12F among a marginalized inner-city population in Winnipeg, Canada (2009-2011). Clinical Infectious Diseases, 2014; 59(5):651-657, [10.1093/cid/ciu366](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/cid/ciu366).
1. Malik T [S], Reimer J, Gumel A, Elbasha EH, Mahmud S. The impact of an imperfect vaccine and pap cytology screening on the transmission of human papillomavirus and occurrence of associated cervical dysplasia and cancer. Mathematical Biosciences and Engineering: MBE, 2013; 10(4):1173-1205, [10.3934/mbe.2013.10.1173](http://dx.doi.org/10.3934/mbe.2013.10.1173).
1. Chevarie-Davis M, Ramanakumar AV, Ferenczy A, Villa LL, Franco EL, Mahmud SM, Ludwig-McGill Cohort Study Group. Assessment of the performance of algorithms for cervical cancer screening: evidence from the Ludwig-McGill cohort study. Gynecologic oncology, 2013; 128(3):415-419, [10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.12.008](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.12.008).
1. Trevisan A [S], Schlecht NF, Ramanakumar AV, Villa LL, Franco EL, the Ludwig-McGill Study Group (includes Mahmud SM). Human papillomavirus type 16 viral load measurement as a predictor of infection clearance. The Journal of General Virology, 2013; 94(Pt 8):1850-1857, [10.1099/vir.0.051722-0](http://dx.doi.org/10.1099/vir.0.051722-0).
1. Mahmud SM, Thompson LH [S], Nowicki DL [V], Plourde PJ. Outbreaks of influenza-like illness in long-term care facilities in Winnipeg, Canada. Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses, 2013; 7(6):1055-1061, [10.1111/irv.12052](http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/irv.12052).
1. Mahmud S, Ali F, Salhin A, Mohamed F, Elkhammas E. Regulating healthcare professions in Libya: A viewpoint. Ibnosina Journal of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, 2013; 5(4):214-217.
1. Singh H, Nugent Z, Demers A, Czaykowski PM, Mahmud SM. Risk of Colorectal Cancer After Diagnosis of Endometrial Cancer: A Population-Based Study. Journal of clinical oncology, 2013; 31(16):2010-2015, [10.1200/JCO.2012.47.6481](http://dx.doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2012.47.6481).
1. Skowronski D, Janjua N, De Serres G, Dickinson J, Winter A, Mahmud S, Sabaiduc S, Gubbay J, Charest H, Petric M, Fonseca K, Van Caeseele P, Kwindt T, Krajden M, Eshaghi A, Li Y. Interim estimates of influenza vaccine effectiveness in 2012/13 from Canada&#39;s sentinel surveillance network, January 2013. Euro surveillance: bulletin européen sur les maladies transmissibles = European communicable disease bulletin, 2013; 18(5):pii: 20394.
1. Oliveira LB, Louvanto K, Ramanakumar AV, Franco EL, Villa LL, Mahmud SM. Polymorphism in the promoter region of the Toll-like receptor 9 gene and cervical human papillomavirus infection. The Journal of General Virology, 2013; 94(Pt 8):1858-1864, [10.1099/vir.0.052811-0](http://dx.doi.org/10.1099/vir.0.052811-0).
1. Erich V Kliewer, Salaheddin M Mahmud, Alain A Demers, Pascal Lambert. Human papillomavirus vaccination and Pap testing profile in Manitoba, Canada. Vaccine, 2013; 32(1):33-38, [10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.10.082](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.10.082).
1. Mahmud SM, Van Caeseele P, Hammond G, Kurbis C, Hilderman T, Elliott L. No association between 2008-09 influenza vaccine and influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 virus infection, Manitoba, Canada, 2009. Emerging infectious diseases, 2012; 18(5):801-810, [10.3201/eid1805.111596](http://dx.doi.org/10.3201/eid1805.111596).
1. Tota JE, Ramanakumar AV, Mahmud SM, Trevisan A [S], Villa LL, Franco EL. Cervical human papillomavirus detection is not affected by menstrual phase. Sexually Transmitted Infections, 2012; 89(3):202-206, [10.1136/sextrans-2012-050610](http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/sextrans-2012-050610).
1. Thompson LH [S], Mahmud SM, Keynan Y, Blanchard JF, Slater J, Dawood M, Fowke K, Van Caeseele P, Becker M. Serological survey of the novel influenza A H1N1 in inner city Winnipeg, Manitoba, 2009. The Canadian Journal of Infectious Diseases and Medical Microbiology, 2012; 23(2):65-70, [10.1155/2012/484693](http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2012/484693).
1. Harminder Singh, Zoann Nugent, Alain Demers, Salaheddin Mahmud, Charles N Bernstein. Exposure to bisphosphonates and risk of colorectal cancer: a population-based nested case-control study. Cancer. American Cancer Society, 2012; 118(5):1236-1243, [10.1002/cncr.26395](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cncr.26395).
1. Mahmud SM, Sangwa-Lugoma G, Nasr SH, Kayembe PK, Tozin RR, Drouin P, Lorincz A, Ferenczy A, Franco EL. Comparison of human papillomavirus testing and cytology for cervical cancer screening in a primary health care setting in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Gynecologic oncology, 2012; 124(2):286-291, [10.1016/j.ygyno.2011.10.031](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ygyno.2011.10.031).
1. Sangwa-Lugoma G, Ramanakumar AV, Mahmud S, Liaras J, Kayembe PK, Tozin RR, Lorincz A, Franco EL. Prevalence and determinants of high-risk human papillomavirus infection in women from a sub-Saharan African community. Sexually transmitted diseases, 2011; 38(4):308-315, [10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181fc6ec0](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181fc6ec0).
1. Sharomi O, Podder CN, Gumel AB, Mahmud SM, Rubinstein E. Modelling the transmission dynamics and control of the novel 2009 swine influenza (H1N1) pandemic. Bulletin of mathematical biology, 2011; 73(3):515-548, [10.1007/s11538-010-9538-z](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11538-010-9538-z).
1. Salaheddin M. Mahmud, Eduardo L. Franco, Donna Turner, Robert W. Platt, Patricia Beck, David Skarsgard, Jon Tonita, Colin Sharpe, Armen G. Aprikian. Use of Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs and Prostate Cancer Risk: A Population-Based Nested Case-Control Study. PloS one, 2011; 6(1):e16412, [10.1371/journal.pone.0016412](http://dx.doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0016412).
1. Malik MT [S], Gumel A, Thompson LH [S], Strome T, Mahmud SM. &amp;quot;Google flu trends&amp;quot; and emergency department triage data predicted the 2009 pandemic H1N1 waves in Manitoba. Canadian Journal of Public Health., 2011; 102(4):294-297, [10.17269/cjph.102.2603](http://dx.doi.org/10.17269/cjph.102.2603).
1. Mukhi S N, Chester T L, Klaver-Kibria JD, Nowicki DL [V], Whitlock ML [V], Mahmud SM, Louie M, Lee BE. Innovative technology for web-based data management during an outbreak. Online J Public Health Inform, 2011; 3(1):ojphi.v3i1.3514, [10.5210/ojphi.v3i1.3514](http://dx.doi.org/10.5210/ojphi.v3i1.3514).
1. Mahmud S, Hammond G, Elliott L, Hilderman T, Kurbis C, Caetano P, Van Caeseele P, Kettner J, Dawood M. Effectiveness of the pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccines against laboratory-confirmed H1N1 infections: population-based case-control study. Vaccine, 2011; 29(45):7975-7981, [10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.08.068](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.vaccine.2011.08.068).
1. Tota J, Mahmud SM, Ferenczy A, Coutlée F, Franco EL. Promising strategies for cervical cancer screening in the post-human papillomavirus vaccination era. Sexual health, 2010; 7(3):376-382, [10.1071/SH10022](http://dx.doi.org/10.1071/SH10022).
1. Mahmud SM, Franco EL, Aprikian AG. Use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and prostate cancer risk: a meta-analysis. International journal of cancer. Journal international du cancer, 2010; 127(7):1680-1691, [10.1002/ijc.25186](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ijc.25186).
1. Singh H, Nugent Z, Demers AA, Kliewer EV, Mahmud SM, Bernstein CN. The reduction in colorectal cancer mortality after colonoscopy varies by site of the cancer. Gastroenterology, 2010; 139(4):1128-1137, [10.1053/j.gastro.2010.06.052](http://dx.doi.org/10.1053/j.gastro.2010.06.052).
1. Fahmy N, Aprikian A, Tanguay S, Mahmud SM, Al-Otaibi M, Jeyaganth S, Amin M, Kassouf W. Practice patterns and recurrence after partial cystectomy for bladder cancer. World journal of urology, 2010; 28(4):419-423, [10.1007/s00345-009-0478-x](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00345-009-0478-x).
1. Singh H, Nugent Z, Mahmud SM, Demers AA, Bernstein CN. Predictors of colorectal cancer after negative colonoscopy: a population-based study. The American journal of gastroenterology, 2010; 105(3):663-673, [10.1038/ajg.2009.650](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ajg.2009.650).
1. Mahmud SM, Becker M, Keynan Y, Elliott L, Thompson LH [S], Fowke K, Avery L, Van Caeseele P, Harlos S, Blanchard J, Dawood M. Estimated cumulative incidence of pandemic (H1N1) influenza among pregnant women during the first wave of the 2009 pandemic. CMAJ: Canadian Medical Association Journal, 2010; 182(14):1522-1524, [10.1503/cmaj.100488](http://dx.doi.org/10.1503/cmaj.100488).
1. Bruchim I, Israeli O, Mahmud SM, Aviram-Goldring A, Rienstein S, Friedman E, Ben-Baruch G, Gotlieb WH. Genetic alterations detected by comparative genomic hybridization and recurrence rate in epithelial ovarian carcinoma. Cancer genetics and cytogenetics, 2009; 190(2):66-70, [10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2008.11.013](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2008.11.013).
1. Trottier H, Mahmud SM, Lindsay L, Jenkins D, Quint W, Wieting SL, Schuind A, Franco EL. Persistence of an incident human papillomavirus infection and timing of cervical lesions in previously unexposed young women. Cancer epidemiology, Biomarkers &amp; Prevention, 2009; 18(3):854-862, [10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-08-1012](http://dx.doi.org/10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-08-1012).
1. El Taguri A, Betilmal I, Mahmud SM, Monem Ahmed A, Goulet O, Galan P, Hercberg S. Risk factors for stunting among under-fives in Libya. Public health nutrition, 2009; 12(8):1141-1149, [10.1017/S1368980008003716](http://dx.doi.org/10.1017/S1368980008003716).
1. Singh H, Demers AA, Nugent Z, Mahmud SM, Kliewer EV, Bernstein CN. Risk of cervical abnormalities in women with inflammatory bowel disease: a population-based nested case-control study. Gastroenterology, 2009; 136(2):451-458, [doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2008.10.021](http://dx.doi.org/doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2008.10.021).
1. Franco EL, Mahmud SM, Tota J, Ferenczy A, Coutlée F. The expected impact of HPV vaccination on the accuracy of cervical cancer screening: the need for a paradigm change. Archives of medical research, 2009; 40(6):478-485, [doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2009.06.003](http://dx.doi.org/doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2009.06.003).
1. Singh H, Mahmud SM. Different study designs in the epidemiology of cancer: case-control vs. cohort studies. Methods in molecular biology, 2009; 471:217-225, [10.1007/978-1-59745-416-2_11](http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-1-59745-416-2_11).
1. Singh H, Mahmud SM, Turner D, Xue L, Demers AA, Bernstein CN. Long-term use of statins and risk of colorectal cancer: a population-based study. The American journal of gastroenterology, 2009; 104(12):3015-3023, [10.1038/ajg.2009.574](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ajg.2009.574).
1. M van Seters, M van Beurden, FJ ten Kate, I Bruchim, WH Gotlieb, S Mahmud, E Tunitsky, K Grzywacz, A Ferenczy, VE von Gruenigen, HE Gibbons, K Gibbins, EL Jenison, MP Hopkins. Treatment of Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia with Topical Imiquimod. The New England Journal of Medicine, 2008; 2008(359):93-95, [10.1056/NEJMoa072685](http://dx.doi.org/10.1056/NEJMoa072685).
1. Fahmy N, Kassouf W, Jeyaganth S, Amin M, Mahmud S, Steinberg J, Tanguay S, Aprikian A. An analysis of preoperative delays prior to radical cystectomy for bladder cancer in Quebec. Canadian Urological Association Journal, 2008; 2(2):102-108, [10.5489/cuaj.482](http://dx.doi.org/10.5489/cuaj.482).
1. Tamim HM, Mahmud S, Hanley JA, Boivin JF, Stang MR, Collet JP. Antidepressants and risk of prostate cancer: a nested case-control study. Prostate cancer and prostatic diseases, 2008; 11(1):53-60, [10.1038/sj.pcan.4501003](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/sj.pcan.4501003).
1. Trottier H, Mahmud S, Prado JC, Sobrinho JS, Costa MC, Rohan TE, Villa LL, Franco EL. Type-specific duration of human papillomavirus infection: implications for human papillomavirus screening and vaccination. The Journal of infectious diseases, 2008; 197(10):1436-1448, [10.1086/587698](http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/587698).
1. Mahmud SM. The enigma of prostate cancer: an epidemiologic survey of the etiological models of prostate cancer. International J Cancer Prevention, 2007; 3(1-2):39-56.
1. Mahmud SM, Koushik A, Duarte-Franco E, Costa J, Fontes G, Bicho M, Coutlée F, Franco EL. Haptoglobin phenotype and risk of cervical neoplasia: a case-control study. Clinica chimica acta; international journal of clinical chemistry, 2007; 385(1-2):67-72, [10.1016/j.cca.2007.06.020](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cca.2007.06.020).
1. Mahmud SM, Robinson K, Richardson H, Tellier PP, Ferenczy AS, Roger M, Coutlee F, Franco EL. HLA polymorphisms and cervical human Papillomavirus infection in a cohort of Montreal University students. The Journal of infectious diseases, 2007; 196(1):82-90, [10.1086/518612](http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/518612).
1. Kim JJ, Kuntz KM, Stout NK, Mahmud S, Villa LL, Franco EL, Goldie SJ. Multiparameter calibration of a natural history model of cervical cancer. American journal of epidemiology, 2007; 166(2):, [10.1093/aje/kwm086](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/aje/kwm086).
1. Bruchim I, Gotlieb WH, Mahmud S, Tunitsky E, Grzywacz K, Ferenczy A. HPV-related vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia: outcome of different management modalities. International Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, 2007; 99(1):23-27, [10.1016/j.ijgo.2007.03.023](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijgo.2007.03.023).
1. Mahmud SM, Tanguay S, Bégin LR, Franco EL, Aprikian AG. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug use and prostate cancer in a high-risk population. European Journal of Cancer Prevention, 2006; 15(2):158-164, [10.1097/01.cej.0000197451.02604.25](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/01.cej.0000197451.02604.25).
1. Dasgupta K, Di Cesar D, Ghosn J, Rajan R, Mahmud S, Rahme E. Association between nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and prostate cancer occurrence. Cancer journal (Sudbury, Mass, 2006; 12(2):130-135.
1. Faria SL, Mahmud S, Wakil G, Negrete S, Souhami L, David M, Duclos M, Shenouda G, Freeman CR. Is there a detrimental effect of waiting for radiotherapy for patients with localized prostate cancer. American journal of clinical oncology, 2006; 29(5):, [10.1097/01.coc.0000225919.35003.88](http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/01.coc.0000225919.35003.88).
1. Sangwa-Lugoma G, Mahmud S, Nasr SH, Liaras J, Kayembe PK, Tozin RR, Drouin P, Lorincz A, Ferenczy A, Franco EL. Visual inspection as a cervical cancer screening method in a primary health care setting in Africa. International journal of cancer., 2006; 119(6):1389-1395, [10.1002/ijc.21972](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ijc.21972).
1. Fahmy NM, Mahmud S, Aprikian AG. Delay in the surgical treatment of bladder cancer and survival: systematic review of the literature. European urology, 2006; 50(6):, [10.1016/j.eururo.2006.05.046](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2006.05.046).
1. Mahmud SM, Fong B, Fahmy N, Tanguay S, Aprikian AG. Effect of preoperative delay on survival in patients with bladder cancer undergoing cystectomy in Quebec: a population based study. The Journal of urology, 2006; 175(1):, [10.1016/S0022-5347(05)00070-4](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0022-5347(05)00070-4).
1. Vilela LD, Nicolau B, Mahmud S, Edgar L, Hier M, Black M, Franco EL, Allison PJ. Comparison of psychosocial outcomes in head and neck cancer patients receiving a coping strategies intervention and control subjects receiving no intervention. The Journal of otolaryngology, 2006; 35(2):, [PMID: 16527026](http://dx.doi.org/PMID: 16527026).
1. Trottier H, Mahmud S, Costa MC, Sobrinho JP, Duarte-Franco E, Rohan TE, Ferenczy A, Villa LL, Franco EL. Human papillomavirus infections with multiple types and risk of cervical neoplasia. Cancer epidemiology, biomarkers &amp; prevention, 2006; 15(7):, [10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-06-0129](http://dx.doi.org/10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-06-0129).
1. Burchell AN, Richardson H, Mahmud SM, Trottier H, Tellier PP, Hanley J, Coutlée F, Franco EL. Modeling the sexual transmissibility of human papillomavirus infection using stochastic computer simulation and empirical data from a cohort study of young women in Montreal, Canada. American journal of epidemiology, 2006; 163(6):, [10.1093/aje/kwj077](http://dx.doi.org/10.1093/aje/kwj077).
1. Faria SL, Mahmud S, Souhami L, David M, Duclos M, Shenouda G, Makis W, Freeman CR. No immediate treatment after biochemical failure in patients with prostate cancer treated by external beam radiotherapy. Urology, 2006; 67(1):142-146, [10.1016/j.urology.2005.07.019](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.urology.2005.07.019).
1. Mahmud S, Franco E, Aprikian A. Prostate cancer and use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs: systematic review and meta-analysis. British journal of cancer, 2004; 90(1):, [10.1038/sj.bjc.6601416](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/sj.bjc.6601416).
1. Faria SL, Mahmud S, David M, Souhami L, Duclos M, Shenouda G, Deblois F, Janick C, Freeman CR. Biochemical failure as single abnormality in patients with prostate cancer following radical treatment with external radiotherapy: follow-up without immediate treatment. International Braz J Urol, 2004; 30(4):289-295, [PMID: 15679959](http://dx.doi.org/PMID: 15679959).
1. Dang-Tan T, Mahmud SM, Puntoni R, Franco EL. Polio vaccines, Simian Virus 40, and human cancer: the epidemiologic evidence for a causal association. Oncogene, 2004; 23(38):6535-40, [10.1038/sj.onc.1207877](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/sj.onc.1207877).
1. Vigano A, Donaldson N, Higginson IJ, Bruera E, Mahmud S, Suarez-Almazor M. Quality of life and survival prediction in terminal cancer patients: a multicenter study. Cancer, 2004; 101(5):1090-1098, [10.1002/cncr.20472](http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/cncr.20472).
1. Ross PL, Mahmud S, Stephenson AJ, Souhami L, Tanguay S, Aprikian AG. Variations in PSA doubling time in patients with prostate cancer on &amp;quot;watchful waiting&amp;quot value of short-term PSADT determinations. Urology, 2004; 64(2):, [10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.020](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.urology.2004.03.020).
1. Mahmud S and Franco E. An overview of epidemiological and public health research on HPVs presented at the 21st International Papillomavirus Conference in Mexico City, 20-26 February 2004. Papillomavirus Report, 2004; 15(3):121-123, [10.1179/095741904225005124](http://dx.doi.org/10.1179/095741904225005124).
1. Mahmud SM, Reilly M, Comber H. Patterns of initial management of lung cancer in the Republic of Ireland: a population-based observational study. Lung Cancer (Amsterdam, Netherlands), 2003; 41(1):, [10.1016/S0169-5002(03)00148-X](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0169-5002(03)00148-X).
1. Twair AA, Torreggiani WC, Mahmud SM, Ramesh N, Hogan B. Significant savings in radiologic report turnaround time after implementation of a complete picture archiving and communication system (PACS). Journal of Digital Imaging, 2000; 13(4):175-177.
